# IB Extended Essay

Title of Paper (Research Question): 

**To what extent can broadcast encryption schemes in advanced access content systems help prevent the pirating of digital goods?**

Subject: Computer Science

Student Name: Xavi Ablaza

Examination Session: May 2015
School: International School Manila
Total Word Count: 3182
## AbstractThis paper focuses on the problem of pirating, which is the replication and manipulation of digital content. Advanced access content systems are distribution schemes that companies use in which they distribute information with the use of broadcast encryption. Although broadcast encryption effectively achieves its purpose of sharing information to privileged members, ways in which non-privileged users are present to break the scheme, rendering the distribution system vulnerable to security flaws. A traitor tracing solution is present in which pirated decryption keys can be rendered ineffective is detailed to fix the inherent problems that some advanced access content systems have today. Also, other theoretical solutions are also presented, but have been considered to be infeasible due to other limitations and tradeoffs in transmission length and ciphertext key size. Researchers at time of writing, are hopeful that their planned solutions for improving these systems can help give basis for future developments in this area, as problems with their solutions are bound to arise.## IntroductionThe replication and manipulation of digital content is very easy. Although many positive applications have come as a result of this, the pirating of digital media such as software, music, and video has posed a problem to many companies that produce and distribute these products. This problem does not only affect digital content obtained online, but similarly for other advanced access content (AAC) systems such as the distribution of physical music CDs, DVDs, and the broadcasting of home television programs. If digital content is successfully breached of its security measures, then its protection capacities are effectively voided and can be distributed illegally. It is important that other measures are implemented in broadcast encryption (BE) schemes for a suitable end-goal that users will not be able to use the data in other ways not prescribed by the distributor.
This problem is significant in the world of computer science since distributing companies want to maintain stable sales of their digital products. Without broadcast encryption schemes and advanced access control systems, the economy for digital products could plunge into a pirate market. If this were to happen, distributing companies generate little to no revenue since illegal copies of their products are freely passed around users.
As such, access control (AC) systems, in particular AAC systems are thus worthy to investigate since many potential security issues that come along with their BE schemes are present. These include the manipulation of sensitive data without authorized access, the bypassing of restrictions on the usage of data and the ability to bypass the technological barriers of digital goods. This paper will explore the current functionalities of BE schemes used to protect a home television AAC system (AACS) and will present the system’s current problems and both practical and theoretical solutions with their caveats.## Discretionary Access Control Functionalities in an AACSA discretionary access control (DAC) system is a way in which an AACS can be enforced. This network organization structure selectively restricts access for certain users from certain privileges the network provides. For example, on a school intranet, technical administrators would give different access abilities to certain files compared to students. The structure of a DAC system entails the access of specific resources being assigned to the system’s users based on certain permissions. In the context of buying and selling services, for example, when clients subscribe to monthly cable television, then the permission for the client to watch the broadcasted channels are then provided by the system. 
Some AAC systems are usually formed on the basis of a threshold cryptosystem with only a few technical and applicative modifications. A simple yet ideal solution can be proposed such that each user in a network can be given an individual key for decryption and encryption. However, this solution is costly due to the sheer computational power needed to create such a system.  So, in order to solve this, AAC systems can be created where it would be cost-effective “to have a public key for the company (organization) than having one for each individual employee, [since] public key systems [were] proposed which allow the reuse of the shared secret key since the key is not revealed either to insiders or to outsiders” (Desmedt 1). Thus, using public key systems expends less computational resources while still maintaining the level of security as a key per client method.## The Problem with Pirate DecodingThe AACS mainly utilizes BE, wherein content that is delivered to the users is encrypted such that only privileged users are allowed to decrypt the broadcast. In such a way, keys are distributed in a short-term “exclusion” basis, which occurs for example when a subset of users requests to watch a movie. When a user’s movie ends, they may be prevented from recovering other messages from the broadcast, however are still present in the system. Once a user decides to opt out of this system, a revocation scheme, which is a long-term exclusion of the user, is activated and the user can no longer access any data from the broadcast or decrypt it (Garay et al., 334). Although the subscription based system is best suited to describe pirate decoding, The same system can be applied in many different contexts. For example, by distributing encrypted content through DVDs, and using private keys in DVD players to decrypt the content.
Most AACS systems are smartcard based, meaning that several decryption keys are placed on a smartcard upon distribution to the client. As such, many “pirate” smartcards have been built for installation into devices where users can access broadcasted information like TV cable receivers and freely be able to decrypt privileged content without legitimately being part of the system. With pirates like these, they are able to narrowly avoid paying for the services provided without any detection from the service provider. However, there are schemes devised in which the broadcast can effectively adapt to compromised (pirate) cards, which offer a medium of protection against piracy. As such, these types of long-lived BE schemes have been created in such a way that it continues to broadcast encrypted content whilst becoming aware of the compromised keys and adapting.## The Traitor-Tracing SolutionOnce a pirate card is found by the long-lived BE scheme, all its encryption keys are deemed compromised (Garay et al., 334). It is important to note that even though the copied encryption keys are not used by the pirate card, they will likewise be considered as compromised since the pirate installer may still take hold of the original card’s keys that he can use to create more pirate cards. After detecting a compromise, the card’s keys are identified and logged into the broadcast system. Then, to for secure broadcasting measures, a new set of keys will be given to the user. This detection of pirate cards is one of the strengths of the BE scheme.
Administrative time periods, or epochs, are created by the BE scheme to calculate distribution cycles for when these keys are to be distributed. These periods are deliberated when either when a pirate card is detected by the encrypted broadcast scheme or when the user’s contract with the service expires. As such, there are major economic costs that come into play, such as the amount of keys that need to be generated per epoch. For example, in a multicast scenario, which is a one-to-many or many-to-many relationship between users and services, rekeying in this kind of situation is expensive and rekeying the entire group in constant intervals is better with the cost of latency issues when adjusting membership roles.
Groundbreaking revocation schemes recently proposed highlight the ability to revoke access from p users whilst the administrative system relays private messages to each of the other non-compromised cards about the revocation of a single user (Naor and Pinkas, 1-2). This method is very ideal in a resource-plentiful situation, as it minimizes the amount of recarding that is necessary. So, instead of operating with a scheduler and using epochs, keys are easily removed in real time from the cards during the process of encryption. 
One massive caveat of some modern traceability schemes is that they do not explicitly describe their secure broadcast to privileged sets of users once the pirate smartcards have been found. So, to effectively build a traceability scheme that serves it purpose of finding pirate smartcards, a relationship between the keys is produced such that when one pirate smartcard is discovered, at least one of the other cards that were used to make it can also be found. It is to be noted however that it is the broadcast schemes that deal directly with the compromised keys not being used to encrypt content being modified. Also, traceability schemes will inherently be limited since some BE schemes have a threshold on the amount of compromised keys that can be present. This threshold is an innate flaw of BE, and must be taken into account for because if the threshold were to supersede its set amount, then insecure communication (whether broadcasting or tracing) to any subset of users could occur. 
Although handling the problem from the view of the service provider, it would want to minimize the amount of keys generated in a BE scheme. It is noted that in the long-lived system some sort of traceability could also be implemented, but these systems have yet to be tested (Naor and Pinkas, 4). An obvious solution to the problem that non-members of the privileged subset of users trying to learn the encrypted broadcast is to distribute a unique key to every privileged sub-user and give an individually encrypted message to each of them. However, this method would require a very long transmission that is resource costly to the service provider. Alternatively, by providing every user with keys that go in hand with the groups or configurations that they belong to requires the user to have many keys in storage (which is also not ideal).## Creating an Encryption-Perfect BE SchemeMinimizing the amount of keys to generate for a BE scheme is only one of the factors needed to create an encryption-perfect BE scheme. Among others, they include: minimizing the transmission length from the service provider to the storage at the client’s end and minimizing the amount of clients that breach the broadcast, although the system is fully aware of the presence of pirate keys (Fiat and Naor, 3).
Moreover, the transmission length of encryption keys must be minimized since BE schemes can be broken if one were to find a common key between a subset of users. These commonalities can be made harder to find by conspiring users since cryptographic methods such as hashing methods exist. So, for a conspiring user not to be able to distinguish the difference between encrypted content and its key, a security parameter that needs to be considered when creating a scheme is the length of this key. To achieve this, we need to take into account another threshold called the “random-resiliency threshold” This threshold is also defined as being (Fiat and Naor, 1):> k-resilient if it is resilient to any set S⊂U of size k. We also deal with random coalitions: a scheme is called (k,p)-random-resilient if with probability at least 1-p the scheme is resilient to a set S of size k ,chosen at random from U . Let |U|, we use n and |U| interchangeably hereinafter.When this threshold is surpassed, non-members can break the scheme and can be able to recover the transmission. So, for an amount of p clients, the BE schemes should be robust for any group of p clients that collude and any subset of privileged clients of any size. 

In many cases, should decryption devices be captured from conspiring users, it is the random resiliency that will determine how many devices are needed to break the scheme. If the random resiliency remains high, then security is undoubtedly better.  There are different scenarios each with its different ways on regarding security and strength. Some conspiring clients will be incapable of bypassing the security measures created by the following schemes. One definition of broadcast encryption (Fiat and Naor, 4) states that:> A broadcast scheme allocates keys to users so that given a subset T of U, the center can broadcast messages to all users following which all members of T have a common key.Broadcast schemes are very comparable to that of having a threshold. These schemes must be resilient to a generic set of people such that any subset does not intersect with the generic set (not part of both the generic set and the subset), no eavesdropper or middle-man listener belonging to the subset, can be able to obtain information of secret belonging to the subset.
The information mentioned has two different interpretations: firstly, that the secret has an a-priori distribution of the keys (uniform distribution) of the generic set and the broadcasted message by the provider, which is the “conditional distribution of the secret” (Fiat and Naor, 1), and that it remains unchanged. Secondly, that the secret is pseudo-random and that a listener who is computationally bounded cannot be able to distinguish a secret and a random string, even if the listener has the keys of a coalition of the generic set then any subset’s secret will still remain pseudo-random (computational definition of security). It is however assumed in a real situation, that the conspiring listener cannot obtain the user’s private decryption key, and that he can only intercept the broadcasted information.I believe that it is important to understand in a real application of any BE scheme that a cost-benefit analysis must be carried out before selecting which scheme to use in a digital content system. One must always think about the best way to maximize client usage of the digital distribution system, taking into account current resources like research and development into systems that are computationally optimized and enhanced security-wise.## The Use of Fingerprint Embedding

Another line of defense that can be used in the transmission of broadcasted data is the use of fingerprinting technology.
  **Distributor-Side Encryption and Fingerprint Embedding**
This scenario occurs when digital media is to be separately included with the client’s fingerprint then encrypted using a public key to create the ciphertext. This case however has its disadvantages, primarily being the efficient use of bandwidth since a repeat request of the same copy of a fingerprint embedded text done at transmission side. Since the insecure encryption of a global encryption key is used, then plaintext from the user can be obtained if any other user’s data is eavesdropped on. Basically malicious users can be able to “crack the code,” at any given point by eavesdropping on other users (Sun et al., 1531).
**Distributor-Side Encryption and Client-Side Fingerprint Embedding**
Originally this type of fingerprint embedding was proposed for digital TV, and then moved onto digital right management (DRM) for cinema. If the encryption and fingerprint embedding were both only done at the transmitter side then encryption using global keys is necessary. This scenario would save computation time in key distribution and would reduce wasted bandwidth. This situation involves the receiver acting like a super node, meaning that multimedia can be sent to different users through the receiver, who acts as a distributor for multicasting. The user from the global key can also decrypt the ciphertext that is broadcasted. Simultaneously, the generated fingerprinted data is generated where the user’s fingerprint is embedded into the data for every user. Another advantage of this method is that the decryption on the server side will become more computationally secure (Sun et al., 1531).
Joint fingerprinting and decryption, according to Kundur and Karthik, is a solution aimed at minimizing system complexity and achieving a real time requirement. The multimedia data is incompletely decrypted such that the still-encrypted parts of the data will simulate the user fingerprint. Although this method is theoretically ideal, using partial decryption and fingerprint embedding at the same time, the still-encrypted parts of the data must have 2 important requirements. The transparency of the data must not be affected, meaning that undecrypted parts of the data must still have significant encryption (strong encryption) and can still hide the content sufficiently. These undecrypted parts of the data can be used alongside the advanced access content system (Sun et al, 1531).
**Attack Points and Multi-Point Collusion Attacks**
A multi-point collusion attack entails an attack that originates from more than one attack point. The most fruitful collusion attacks are able to recover useful plaintext of multimedia content. The owner must preserve the plaintext property. An AACS compromises of 4 major parties in which attacks can be pinpointed to: the content owner (producer) end, the licensed replicator (distributor) end, licensing entity for key management (player distributors) and licensed player (user end). An AACS-compatible joint fingerprinting and encryption scheme proposes that in order to ease security threats to the method, including: multiple-point application of multimedia encryption to resist attack points and rewriteable fingerprint embedding (RFE) to fix multi-point collusion attack (Sun et al., 1532).
The type of encryption prescribed here is collusion-resistant (Boneh et al., 2). Since these systems are created for stateless receivers; as such, these systems are very secure from any number of colluders. In this first situation, ciphertexts and private keys are of constant size for any subset of receivers. It is to be noted that these elements (ciphertexts and private keys) and their length is to be taken into account as the transmission speed of the broadcast is dependent upon these factors. 
In the broadcast encryption scheme proposed by Fiat and Naor the service provider encrypts a message to be sent to a specific group of privileged users that are listening through a broadcast channel (1). In order to decrypt the broadcast, any user who is part of the privileged group can be able to use his own private key to recover the information. One of the advantages of this broadcast encryption scheme is that if collusion occurs outside the privileged group, they cannot be able to obtain or decrypt the broadcasted information. Thus, the service provider can encrypt for any subset of privileged users. We use n to denote the total number of users, and r to denote the amount of receivers. While the public key size depends in a mathematically linear fashion for the number of receivers, the broadcast message contains O(r) ciphertexts, where the private key is kept to a minimum of size O(log n). However, a tradeoff between ciphertext size and public key size is present where √n ciphertexts and an O(n) public key size can be used for a subset of receivers, which transmission length is theoretically shorter and faster than that of the first system mentioned. This was achieved this using an “efficiently computable bilinear map” (Boneh et al., 1), an alternative construction of the scheme rather than encrypting the broadcast message per client key.
## Conclusion
The joint fingerprint encryption method, together with the advanced access content system along with security features like traitor tracing is proposed, however security threats to this system were discussed. Although these threats do indeed have potential solutions, these solutions are only partial and do not fix entire threat at hand. It can also be said that the issue of digital piracy is not a worldwide phenomenon. Relating these problems and solutions to a bigger scale, it seems that the installation of pirate smartcards, is only prevalent in cultures where a large market is present, for example, in a culture where watching television is popular and costly. In the Philippines however, this issue is virtually unknown, because cable television plans are relatively cheap. But nonetheless, in cultures where this issue is dominant, security problems are bound to arise if these proposed solutions are implemented. As the digital goods market is continuously growing, multimedia encryption such as rewriteable fingerprint embedding is used to deal with some of collusion attack points. However, current researchers hope that any other security leaks that may come up from proposed solutions could inspire future developments for a better multimedia security system in the future.  
## Works Cited- Boneh, Dan, Craig Gentry, and Brent Waters. "Collusion Resistant Broadcast Encryption With Short Ciphertexts and Private Keys." Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2005 3621 (2005): 258-75.Springer-Verlag. Web. 2 Sept. 2014.- Desmedt, Yvo G., and Yair Frankel. "Threshold Cryptosystems." Ed. Gilles Brassard. CRYPTO '89 Proceedings on Advances in Cryptology (1989): 307-15. ACM Digital Library. Web. 2 Sept. 2014.- Fiat, Amos, and Moni Naor. "Broadcast Encryption." CRYPTO '93 Proceedings of the 13th Annual International Cryptology Conference on Advances in Cryptology (1994): 480-91. Springer-Verlag. Web. 2 Sept. 2014.- Garay, Juan A., Jessica Staddon, and Avishai Wool. "Long-Lived Broadcast Encryption." Ed. Mihir Bellare. Advances in Cryptology - CRYPTO 2000 1880 (2000): 333-52. Springer-Verlag. Web. 2 Sept. 2014.- Jin, Hongxia, Jeffery Lotspiech, and Nimrod Megiddo. Efficient Traitor Tracing. Tech. no. RJ10390. San Jose: IBM, 2006. Print.- Naor, Moni, and Benny Pinkas. "Efficient Trace and Revoke Schemes." Ed. Yair Frankel. Financial Cryptography 1962 (2001): 1-20. Springer-Verlag. Web. 2 Sept. 2014.- Saxena, Nitesh, Gene Tsudik, and Jeong Hyun Yi. "Threshold Cryptography in P2P and MANETs: The Case of Access Control." Computer Networks 51.12 (2007): 3632-649. ScienceDirect. Web. 2 Sept. 2014.- Sun, Shih-Wei, Chun-Shien Lu, and Pao-Chi Chang. "AACS-compatible Multimedia Joint Encryption and Fingerprinting: Security Issues and Some Solutions." Signal Processing: Image Communication 23.3 (2008): 179-93. ScienceDirect. Web. 2 Sept. 2014.