# N:P

I probably shouldn’t be smoking in here because that would just start a fucking war between me and my girlfriend, but like most wars they are pointless. At the end of the day, the world is just trying to escape from the same place. That place, is what every therapist you probably overpaid to spend an hour just to ask you about your fucking day would say. My psychology teacher back when I was doing the IB program told me that most psychiatric problems are caused by depression. There is only one key to avoiding therapy, and that is to be a well rounded person. If you manage to accomplish such a challenging task, then you’re gold, baby. You don’t have to spend 100 dollars every meeting you have with someone who probably, mentally makes fun of your ignorance. A wise psychology teacher would start the class with “the father of psychology’s” most important theory about human behaviour. Look up “Maslow’s pyramid.” He mentions that in order for you to function properly as a productive being is by becoming well balanced in life. Since human beings are animals the first thing we should worry about is being fed regularly. The rest is above, if you are not an idiot then you should know how pyramids work.

I have an almost hawk-like personality and I create markets. In the 21st century, people, to have such a rigorous occupation  would mean to sit your ass off and tweet, post photos on instagram and gain more facebook “friends” and promote companies that hire me.

\*sigh*

I never had the need to write about my life growing up, but that was just because of my upbringing. I grew up as an insecure depressed little shit. I blame it all on my mom. Now that I’m an adult I feel like my life can actually start. This is me taking the steps to my successful being. This is why I have the need to put it down on paper. I am documenting my life as it unfolds. Truly when a child goes into college they find purpose and solemn and therefore they find peace of mind.

My mother at the current moment is trying to manipulate me into giving a fuck about her. She’s nuts. Tita Crissie (my greatest advisor in life) told me not to be affected by her shit. She is able to relate with me because we both have narcissistic mothers and it’s almost uncanny the resemblance of our upbringings. Difference is, with me and Tita, is that she grew up wealthy and her parents were able to provide for her financially but similar to myself, not emotionally, and it has made us stronger people. Mine and Tita’s mind are able to sync really well and I feel like we can make fortunes together that is why I agreed to be under her wing. She opens up her heart to me so casually, and her and I can extremely relate.

As a parent, your number one duty is to find the beauty in your child. If one achieves that, then 80% of your job is done. Those were my current partner’s mom’s words, and I’m pretty sure she made up the statistic, because she’s witty like that. If you fail to do that then the chances are you are gonna raise a son who sells ecstasy on the street and a daughter who stars in porn videos for a living.

Is that what you want?

If not, then stop dictating your children’s actions based on your own psyche. However rough it may have been growing up. Remember, a child is another lifeform you put into this fucked up world. So, if your son or daughter asks you to keep quiet then by all means save your energy and leave them along to their thoughts. A thinker who hears another person’s dumb thoughts is probably the number one thing a critical thinker like myself would abhor. A mother would probably think that their child is being too “rough,” the reality is, we just want to be left alone with our smart and creative minds.

My father suffered through a lot emotionally being with a crazy bitch. At the age of 40 he had to get the extra foreskin of his penis removed because my mom is Catholic. I’m almost happy for him that he died at 42. He does not have to experience the craziness I go through currently. I have like 5 friends, one of them, my closest, is fat and rich. And I’m telling you people right now, that fat fuck is a character. I also have an older brother who is studying psychology in France and an older sister who is married to the most boring person I know and she works as a nurse. She takes care of old people and watches them die basically.

This is me thinking out loud but when you watch Courage the cowardly dog, you learn about economics. Of course the doctor who tried to cure Muriel’s chicken pox is Indian. I’m in my room slightly buzzed watching the show and if parents sat down and watched more cartoons with their kid then they would learn how to be a proper parent.
